Genesis 40, Joseph enters into the extreme test here in prison, and there's just certain things we don't understand.
If we're going to read his life, we're going to read his story, can we fully understand, Lord, why would you allow this for this man?
And the reason it's the extreme test is because he did what was right.
And sometimes we think doing what's right should bring a reward.
But there's a place of doing what's right is because it's right.
It's righteous before the Lord.
And I had written this first part before the news before us and for the
podcast tape in the radio context This week we saw an assassination of a Man of God And I think all of us would are just in the shock of this and We can
come to these things of not understanding and these type of things and I just find myself in amazement.
For us as a church, for where we are here, there were in Genesis 40.
It's almost like if I was to pick a passage, this is the most perfect passage to talk about these things of what we just saw and I think we would
I'll be in agreement.
This is more than an assassination.
This is martyrdom.
There was an attack to silence the voice that spoke God's word clearly, boldly, and that voice that God chose for this man started to just stir a generation
I mean, I'm not in that age generation, but this man definitely, I can't say I follow anyone because of my time that I don't have time to follow people on a daily basis and read blogs and this and that.
But I tell you what, anytime I wanted to see a handling of a debate of someone's position, this was the man I go.
This man has some
which I call a generational gift, he was a one, once in a generation gift to a nation.
And the way that he could present logic clearly, lovingly, boldly, truthfully, and then end with always, there's a God who loves you and has an invitation for a personal relationship
He was a once in a lifetime generation.
And I start with this church, and I'll probably repeat myself in various ways today.
As I say, these things, as we keep weaving these things together, is that moment
had to go through God first.
And I know this is hard for us to look and comprehend.
He had the devil had to go through God before he could touch Job.
That devil had to go through God before he could touch Peter, as Jesus would say, Satan has asked for you.
And when they make statements, the shooter did not act alone.
He didn't.
He was fueled by a demonic realm that has surrounding fueling, but it has a source from the father of lies, the devil, to do what we just witnessed.
And I, like I said,
wrote this first part.
I had this already laid out because I was teaching elsewhere this week.
And I was sharing.
I was teaching once a month.
I teach at a Bible college via Zoom into Nepal.
And right before I began to teach, I got food poisoning.
And God sustained me that I made it all the way to the end of my teaching before my body collapsed on me.
So I see the ways of the devil, but I also see the ways of the Lord putting these things together.
So I think the best place to talk about what is before us is in the scriptures,
to make the sense if that's the right word and you realize should the Lord Terry, this man, Charlie Kirk, could have possibly been one of our next presidents of the United States of America.
This is an attack on the Lord.
This is an attack on America.
This is an attack on free speech.
And we as a Christians, if it's just one person, how do you answer this?
My notes will be posted with the audio and video for your cross-reference, because I'm going to throw up some cross-references for sure as we look at these things.
But we're in the book of Genesis, chapter 40,
And it's a story from paradise, perfectness, to prison as man entered into the fall.
And then the promise of a return to paradise through, and I put in my notes, Genesis 3.15 as I noted, and I, God,
will put inemity.
That's hostility and hatred between you, Satan, and the woman, mankind.
And between your seed, that's demons, and her seed, capital S, Jesus.
He, Jesus, shall bruise your Satan, head, and you, Satan, shall bruise his Jesus, he'll picture of the cross.
The first mention of the gospel, the proto-evangelum, we call it, from that theological wording.
And we have this man before us, Joseph, that we're studying.
We looked at part one, the history of the world, chapters one through 11.
That covered 2,000 years, 11 chapters 2,000 years.
Now we come to 350 years.
And here we look at the life of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph.
Joseph is going to get 25% of the book of beginning, AKA Genesis.
Why is that?
You think we'd spend 25% of the book on creation.
So there'd be no debate God's creation.
But you know, any of you that enter into these
evolution, creation, debates in the workplace.
And again, I'll keep diverting.
That was one of the reasons that there was this hatred by the enemy to this man, because when you can't debate, all that you're down to is attacking and attempting the silence.
When these people come to a place
of buying their lie, then getting up to defend their lie, they find out how little there is no defense to the lie.
And it exasperates them.
And it gives them a choice to repent, or it gives them the choice to then turn into this hatred, this attacking, and what we saw here today, the attempt to silence.
So this man,
Charlie Kirk, what an example that I see here in Joseph.
But I just want to say this, myself and every last one of you, absolutely no different.
All of us have this uniqueness of a calling and there's a reason that God puts 25% of the book of beginning in the book of Genesis is so that every last one of us
When we come to a day like this, when we come to a place like this, when we come to our own extreme test, we can look at Joseph and go, it can be done.
In my outline today, it's going to say, in the extreme test, and that's all of us, or as a nation, remember Joseph, and I'll talk why.
Remember the butcher, really?
Yeah.
And remember,
the butler, remember the butcher, and then, but lastly, remember God.
And here we come with, again, I had this written in
the life of Joseph, but what a passage for us today, and we'll spend more time up front about this.
And then we're actually verse by verse.
We'll just be kind of telling the story.
Usually you do chapters 40 and 41 together, the story of the dream and then the interpretation and the rise today because of the way God pieced this together for us.
And I had already decided, we're just going to do chapter 40 in this.
Can we believe this?
Will you believe Romans 828?
Whether it's in the life of a Charlie Kirk, an Erica Kirk, your life personally, and we know that all things work together for good for those who love God, those who are called according to His purpose.
Can we believe Genesis 50?
But for what you meant for evil, God, in order to bring about as it meant for good, in order to bring it about as it is this day,
to save many people alive.
We could be on the brink of the greatest revival since the Jesus revolution.
The Jesus revolution moved through the young people and then the older, more, this is how life is for me, they got fire.
because they see God's not done with the move of his spirit and the young people.
I got something I can come alongside and connect with.
And here we are.
I mean, this was one of the greatest young generation movements of our time.
Millions and millions.
And I look and I wonder 340 million people.
We have not seen an assassination in the United States of America.
since John F. Kennedy.
And here is the one that the devil picked to silence.
And I think he picked the greatest threat.
And I think God gave the greatest seed because this is one man out of the 350 million that can stir a whole generation.
and fire up a church again to walk holy, to live boldly, and to know the day and season that we live in.
Can all things work together?
I'm absolutely convinced of it.
And when I'm in my trial, I know it's true.
And I look at Hebrews chapter 12 verse 1,
Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witness, let us lay aside every wade in the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking on to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, the spising, the shame, and the set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And here, 1 Corinthians 9, 24, do you not know that those who run in a race
all run but one receives the prize.
Run in such a way that you may obtain it and everyone who competes for the prize is temperate in all things.
Now they do it to obtain a perishable ground but we for an imperishable ground.
Joseph proves to us that it can be done regardless of what the devil throws at us, what our flesh is
Once, regardless of what the world says is the way to go, Joseph has proved to us that it can be done.
And when we come into our extreme test, our extreme trial, because remember, when we looked at Joseph with Potiphar's wife, that was temptation, thrown by the devil.
Now that he's thrown in prison for doing what's right,
This is a trial brought about by God.
And in both, we need the same faith, perseverance, and just belief that God's hand is in this, and God's hand will work and move in this.
But speaking of run in such a way that you may obtain it, Charlie Kirk just weeks before his assassination was asked, what do you want to be known for?
What would you like to be known for, Christian?
When it's all done, what do you want to be known for?
His answer, I just want to be known for my faith and that I had courageous faith.
Father, again, we pray for courageous faith.
As we look at the passage you put before us by your design, this is where we are.
I thank you that we don't have to go and do a topical message for the days that we live in.
You prepare us for an advance for the days we live in.
You did it for Joseph.
You sent the man before the famine.
You sent us before
the season that we live in, and we pray for the heartbeat, heartbreak of the man that you sent, knowing the risk, knowing the threat, yet walked into it.
And I pray, Lord, I know his wife knew the threat, and now she's a widow.
And there's children that grow up fatherless.
Would you comfort those who mourn
And would you stoke a fire to not be silenced?
And Lord, would you do what you do?
Would you comfort her, the family, all those who were part of that ministry side by side with your presence?
And I pray this in your name, amen.
So as we look at the first, remember Joseph.
verses one through eight, as we look at in the extreme test, remember Joseph, but I wanna start with where we were, Genesis 39, 20 through 23, as we talk about these things, and I know I talked a lot about these things already, but again, my first point is probably the main point of the day that we live in, and here's where we come in from,
Verse 20 of Genesis 39, as we remember Joseph.
Then Joseph's master took him and put him in the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were confined.
And he was there in the prison, but the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy.
And it gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison.
And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand, all the prisoners who were
in the prison, whatever they did there it was his doing.
The keeper of the prison did not look into anything that was under Joseph's authority because the Lord was with him and whatever he did the Lord made him prosper.
I'm going to show you something in Psalm 105 because we just think Joseph walked in, he came in, he's unfairly judged
slandered, he walks in.
Oh, here's Joseph.
We're going to see it wasn't like that.
He suffered physical brutality in this prison before what we read here.
So hang with me on that, but here he is again for the recap.
He is in here because he did what was right.
He stood for righteousness.
Potiphar's wife day after day after day with these great temptations, but Joseph called it what it is.
And we said last week, oh that we would, oh that we as Christians, oh that the church would and oh that America do what Joseph said to Potiphar's wife, how could I do this great wickedness?
He called wickedness for what it was.
And let us know
This is what the devil wants to silence is when the church is bold enough to call wickedness, wickedness.
We do a monthly prophecy update every last Sunday of the month.
And one of the largest reasons we do that is to keep us ready because those who have no hope in the future have no purpose for today.
you will find no purpose in today if you do not have a hope for a future that there is a God on the throne and we're going to see him and come into his presence.
But if this day is all we get, it will be hopeless.
Joseph's in prison, but he still has hope we're going to see because of the dream that was given him that all will bow down to you.
I have something planned for you.
God's going to use the dream
for these things.
But we do a prophecy update so that we go through these things and go, this is great wickedness.
And we pick these things of sin and the attack on the sanctity of life and the attack on God's Word and the attack on the church, attack on what is God's definition of marriage, of gender, of holiness, of the way, the truth and the life to come into an eternal
life with Jesus Christ and all these things.
That's why we do what we do.
We don't do it every Sunday in the message because we're teaching the word as we do.
But Joseph said, this is great wickedness.
He was remarkable.
Joseph, Charlie Kirk, his wife, remarkable.
And here's what I want to say.
And so are you.
because God said it.
You might not feel it, but God said it.
And don't let the devil come with his lie and say anything less, because here's what the word of God says to everyone that's his.
1 Peter 2.9, you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation.
his own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
Who once were not a people, but are now the people of God who had not attained mercy, but now have attained mercy.
Beloved, I beg you, as sojourners and pilgrims abstained from fleshly lust, which war against the soul, having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles that when they speak against you as evil doers, they may by your good works, which they observe glorify God in the day
visitation.
God's moving.
He's visiting.
He's showing people.
And he uses us as a Joseph's before.
He uses a person like a Charlie Kirk and an Erica Kurt to put before that we are remarkable people because we have been saved and redeemed and changed.
And he's working and he's changing us from glory to greater glory.
But you know what?
Bad things happen to God's people.
I wrote all this before.
I didn't make the sermon for the moment.
The sermon was ready for the moment.
Bad things happen to God's people.
Not bad things happen to good people because the Lord says in Romans, there's none good, there's no not one.
But he who knew no sin became sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God.
We've been made good.
through the finished work of Jesus Christ.
But bad things happen to God's people.
John 17, we're in the world, we're not of the world.
Why do we choose to do what's right?
1 Corinthians 6, we choose to do what's right so that God may be glorified.
And whatever you do, and we studied this last week, it was the core of our message, whatever you do and word or deed.
1 Corinthians 10, whatever you eat or drink, do it all for the glory of God.
That's why we do what's right because he's holy and because when we follow that, we glorify him.
that we have and show that there's a power within us that has the ability to say no to the devil, the world, and our flesh so that he might be glorified.
Regardless of the reward, our reward is the God's glorified.
Because here's Joseph, he's in his extreme test, and he has to be, I don't understand this.
And I think we would all be in this place.
And here's Isaiah 55 verse eight,
For my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my way, says the Lord.
For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts, then your thoughts."
I don't throw this out as a caveat to say, I don't understand all these things, but I understand that God is good.
And when I face with what I don't understand, I come back to what I do understand, God is good, and all that's true.
But here's what I want to say, and here's what I know as power.
is we might not understand all these things, but we do understand Him.
And that makes all the difference.
We understand who He is because we study to show ourselves approved worker who need not be ashamed, rightly dividing the Word of God.
And Lord, I don't understand all this and how you do.
And I know the devil would have had to ask and come through you first
For this moment, therefore, like Job, like Peter, you would have had to give the okay.
And you know what?
He does it in your life, too.
Whatever the devil launches against you and I, he has to go through the Lord first.
And he has to come against us in this way that he has to go through the Lord.
I want to sift them, and God says, go ahead.
And so when we're in this place, we come to this place, we know that we're in this place.
I don't understand this, but I understand you.
You love me, you're for me, you died for me, and therefore I can rest and trust in you.
So we come to this story that we have in Romans 15 for whatever things were written before were written for our learning that we, through the patience and comfort of the Scriptures,
might have hope.
The Lord gives us all these things are written so that we can look at Joseph and look at our life and then we can look at a moment like this.
and say, I can look at this moment, or I can look at what's going on in my life personally, this trial that's upon me, or the temptation, and I can come and say, I have somebody that I can look at.
I have the perfect example of a man who would not yield to the pressures of the world, to the pressures of the devil, to the pressure of a young man in his flesh, and these type of things, and I can come and I can look at Joseph.
Before I go on with that example, there's something I just
want.
This is probably the only piece I added in between.
In 1 John 1, 1 through 4, the Apostle John would say, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon and our hands have handled concerning the word of life
The life was manifested and we have seen and bear witness and declared to you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us, that which we have seen and heard, we declare to you that you also may have fellowship with us.
And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ, and listen.
And these things we write to you that your joy may be full.
When I see all these examples,
and written for me, for you, for our time, and for the situation that we're in.
But I look at all the Scripture, and I would say, if any of you are suffering depression or downcast, finding your life empty, meaning finding your life not filled with joy, I would ask you, are you reading the Word?
I've written these things that your joy may be full.
And I can find myself, no matter what the situation, I go, if I sit down and it's a battle, then I'm going to sit down and I'm going to battle through all this oppression, depression, I get downcast.
Absolutely.
My heart breaks continually over the things of the world, the things of my life.
All of these things that all of us would struggle with.
And I go, I must sit down and just be in his presence because he said, and these things we write to you that your joy may be full.
It's more than just what we just read verses one through three about God being made manifest.
It's all that John has written.
And when I come to this, my joy will be full.
Back to what we have, God uses every situation that we're in.
Somewhere in the end, what I'm going to say this is, listen, God doesn't waste time.
Psalm 90, we're told to count the number of our days.
We might waste time, but God doesn't waste time.
When He puts us somewhere, when He's doing something, He does not waste time.
And here we come that every one of these situations, and I referenced it when we started, but Psalm 105, listen what's happening.
Moreover, he called for a famine in the land.
He destroyed all the provisions of bread.
He sent a man before them.
Joseph, who was sold as a slave, they hurt his feet with fetters.
He was laid in irons.
Until the time that his word came to pass,
The word of the Lord tested him.
The king sent and released him.
The ruler of the people let him go free.
He made him Lord of his house and ruler over all his possessions.
You see what I have highlighted?
They hurt his feet with fetters.
He was laid in iron.
Until the time his word came to pass, that's the vision that God gave him.
The word of the Lord tested him.
And when you were put in fetters, you were usually beaten.
on your feet that Richard Wormbrand will speak of his 15 years in a prison in Romania.
They would beat his feet.
I talked to people who said, I went and saw him when he got out of prison and he would come and speak 15 years.
I was listening to one of his messages via an audiobook that he wrote.
He said, I would preach a sermon every night.
so that I wouldn't forget the word of God.
But they beat his feet so badly that when after 15 years of the faithfulness, he would get up and God released and brought him into churches to speak.
My friend said, I was there.
He would be dressed in, you know, business attire, business professional, but he wouldn't wear shoes because his feet couldn't wear shoes from his beating.
And I believe this is what Joseph is going through this.
When you were fettered, you were beaten.
And this word, test, is an amazing word because it means to fuse metal together by fire.
The word of the Lord fused this man together like fire.
And the testing was so that you can withstand the load.
And this is what God did.
God sent a man, Joseph, prepared the man before he sent the time upon the land.
God sent the man before he brought the time upon the land.
He prepared Joseph, we know from being sold to being second in command.
It was 13 years.
Before we end today, he's going to spend two more years in prison to start us for next week's message, 13 years of this.
God spent him 13 years to prepare him for the trial and famine upon the land.
I find it ever so interesting for us and the day that we live and the things that we're talking about that we look here.
And so Joseph's extreme test is
because he's falsely accused.
It's easy to go, well, I'm in this trial because of my own foolishness, or I'm in this trial because of such and such.
But the extreme test comes, Lord, I did what was right.
I was righteous, I chose righteousness, and here is what we would all think should come with a reward.
Instead, it comes with more.
time of suffering as he now ends up here.
And it's been said, rightly so, Joseph had to go to prison so there was no place to run.
And God could get and do what he wanted to do with the fusing of this metal together to prepare the man for the time that was to come, because God's still working on this young man for what he has before the land that come.
He's going to save him.
He literally
Joseph saved every one of our lives in this place because he would have faltered and failed, which wasn't going to happen because he was in God's hand.
There would be no 12 tribes of Israel.
There would be no Judah and there would be no lineage to the Messiah because they would have all perished in the famine like so many.
Not only did he save that line, he saved the messianic line that saved our souls here today, because Jesus Christ came through the Lindy's favor, Ham and Isaac and Jacob.
Fascinating to consider these things, but you know when they say there's no place to run, that's not true.
Because every last one of us, we can run in our minds anywhere.
We can be in our bedroom and our minds can run.
We can be sitting at a desk.
with a clicker and our minds can run.
There's always a place that our minds can run, but here we see this man who comes that God was fusing this metal together to put him into this place.
And I just want to give this word as we move into the verse by verse through our chapter.
If you were in a trial, you'd be careful who you listen to.
Because the world can come and make you a victim.
You be careful because you know what?
Even Christians will come and try to comfort you by not speaking truth.
And we're going to see Joseph, he speaks good and bad.
And if we're going to be spokesmen of God, we have to speak the truth.
let the counsel of the world turn you into a victim, you need to sit and go.
This is where you put me.
This is what you're doing.
And therefore, I'm going to fully be here because even you and even me, as great as what God will do with the martyrdom of a Charlie Kirk, he will do with you because you know what Charlie Kirk can't reach certain people?
Only you can.
And so we come to this place and maybe you're in a trowel.
I can relate to it, but your greatest blessing so oftentimes comes after your greatest affliction where God has chiseled and God has brought the fire so that God can now use the man or woman of God.
And that is what we see with the life of a Charlie Kirk and an Erica Kirk.
She is equally
There's a martyr who lays down a life, and now there's a martyr of a wife who has to live in this heartache.
And she is at the same hurt as him.
So verse one and three, don't worry, these are just kind of a read along.
It came to pass after these things that the butler and the baker and the king of Egypt offended
of the king of Egypt defended their lord, the king of Egypt.
And Pharaoh was angry with his two officers, the chief butler and the chief baker.
So he put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard in the prison, the place where Joseph was confined.
No coincidence, of course, which by the way, if Joseph was truly guilty of attempted rape, he would have been murdered.
Just that simple.
So, obviously, God's protecting.
You go, well, that doesn't sound like protection.
It is, because he should have been under the death penalty.
But God put him here, and now he's moving pieces.
And here's the pieces that this happens, that these people come into this place that we see here.
And then, here, we start looking at Joseph.
And when I say in the extreme test, remember Joseph, because when you're in this extreme test, because now we're getting into practical things,
Verse four, and the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them so they were in custody for a while.
Then the butler, the butler, by the way, is he's the cup bearer.
And the cup bearer was very close to the pharaoh because for the assassination attempts,
someone obviously tried to poison the food or poison the drink, the cup bear would drink of whatever was prepared.
Maybe not necessarily the same cup, but in this case it appears that he would sip of the cup, wipe it down, and then prove that it wasn't poisoned, or he would eat a small portion of what was
brought and then proved that it wasn't poison.
So this was a man who was greatly entrusted and the close because even the Pharaoh, the king, would recognize this man puts his life in jeopardy every time I eat something.
And so the cup bear would take the cup, test to make sure.
And then verse four, he says, then verse five, then the butler and
the baker of the king of Egypt who were confined in the prison had a dream.
Both of them, each man's dream in one night and each man's dream with his own interpretation.
And Joseph came into them in the morning and looked at them and saw that they were sad.
So he asked Pharaoh's officers who were with him in the custody of the Lord's house saying, why do you look so sad?
Hey, if you're in an extreme trial,
Here is a, remember Joseph.
Joseph stays faithful even when he was right for being righteous.
Choosing righteousness, he stays faithful.
But here's the other thing that we see here is look at him looking at the state of other people.
If anybody should have been sad, it's Joseph.
I am wrongly in this place.
God has failed me, God has fled me, whatever this may be.
But here he comes and he looks and he sees people.
He can recognize through his hurt because he knows what hurt is, because he's in this place to look at someone and go, man, what's up?
You look downcast.
You look hurt.
Hey, talk to me.
Tell me what's going on.
And so what we see here is Joseph, even in his extreme trial,
And here's a key for us, seeks to serve.
Because you know what, serving will take you off of your mind and your things and put you on to the things of the Lord and looking outward and elsewhere rather than inward and continue.
You want to make yourself miserable?
Think about yourself all day.
I know that's kind of a quip.
Trying to be funny, but man,
When I sit and think about myself over and over, I start thinking about where I'm not, who I'm not, where I want to be, where I'm not, and all these type of things, all these things against me.
But when I say, you know what, Lord, I'm just going to sit out, I'm going to reach out.
And you know, when we are sensitive to those things and we look in somebody's eyes and it happens in this place, hey, how are you?
You look a little down, maybe.
If there's ever anything you want to talk about, I'm here to talk to.
Hey, if there's ever anything that, you know, and then there's a place for us that we make these relationships with people.
I think Joseph would have relationships with these guys because he's serving them and we become transparent to them.
that we come as Christians that we don't have it all together.
And there's a place to be vulnerable, the place to be transparent, but not too much because, you know, there's things that we need to hold just between us and the Lord.
But when you start talking about, yeah, I understand that trial.
I understand that that hurt.
Then all the same people go, Oh, wow, somebody can relate to me.
Therefore I can talk to them.
I think in the church so many times we're convinced that we have to put on this front that we're so strong that we don't have problems and no one can relate to us.
We'll hear these guys.
They're going to more than willingly talk to Joseph about what they're struggling in verse eight.
And they said to him, we each have had a dream and there is no interpreter of it.
So Joseph said to them, do not interpretations belong to God.
Tell them to me, please.
I love this and that Joseph immediately points to interpretation belongs to God.
And here is a powerful place for us in our tests or when we come to minister into someone's else's trowel as we point them to the source.
Matthew 19, 26, but Jesus looked at them and said to them, with men, this is impossible, with God, all things are possible.
And, you know, we're so well-meaning, we want to come, hey, I got this book, read this book, hey, listen to this podcast, hey, listen to this video series, and we take them to a program, or we need to take them to the person of Jesus Christ.
and go, listen, whatever you're going through, these other things can be helpful to you, but listen, apart from the person of Jesus Christ, none of this is going to change in your life.
I've written these things that your joy may be full.
I need to get you back to the Word of God.
These men did not have a word to God to stand on, and therefore they had no joy, and they were filled with the sadness and look at Him.
He immediately starts with
What I'm gonna say isn't gonna be of me.
I'm gonna tell you who can meet you and speak to you.
And it's none other than God.
And look at what the Lord is doing here in this amazement in that God uses these two dreams to come speak to Joseph.
And God will do this in your life when we are put into each other's trials and testings.
He comes to Joseph and he uses dreams to say,
Joseph, I know exactly where you're at.
I have not lost you.
I'm still my eyes are upon you.
I know exactly where you are at this time.
And here Joseph, we see something amazing.
He still believes in his dream.
How do we know?
Because he says, do not interpretations belong to God.
He can still look at this.
And God's encouraging me, Joseph, the dream that I gave you still stands.
And I'm stirring this to remind you, do not interpretations belong to me.
And I gave you interpretation and it shall come the past, even in the midst of what you don't understand and know and try to ponder these things.
Isaiah 55, my ways are not your ways.
They're farther and above all of your ways.
And Joseph still, you know, Joseph doesn't go dreams.
I don't want to hear it.
Don't tell me about dreams.
If it wasn't for this dream, I wouldn't be here.
I wouldn't have said this to my brothers.
I wouldn't have ended up in, sold in the slavery.
I wouldn't have ended up in Potiphar's house and I wouldn't have ended up in this prison because of Potiphar's wife.
I would be back with my father and my family and I would just be living a good life and enjoying life.
Don't tell me about dreams.
But Joseph believes in the dream that God gave him.
And this is what he holds on to to get him through
his trowel, and so too would we.
We're just going to read through these things and do communion, but hey, when you're in your extreme trow, remember the butler.
Now, explain why.
Verses 9 through 15.
Let's read verses 9 through 13 first.
Then the chief butler told his dream to Joseph and said to him, Behold, in my dream, a vine was before me, and in the vine were the three branches.
It was as though the butted and blossom shot forth and it clustered brought forth ripe grapes.
Then Pharaoh's cup was in my hand and I took the grape and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup and placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand.
And Joseph said to him, this is the interpretation of it.
The three branches are three days.
Now within three days Pharaoh will lift
up your head and restore you to your place and you will put Pharaoh's cup in his hand according to the former manor when you were his butler.
So good news.
Good news.
You're going to be restored.
The cup bear, drinker of the vine.
And then here's the point that I want to say that good news is part two into the butcher.
But here's what I want to say about this.
Verse 14 and 15, when you're in your trial, this is vital.
But remember me when it's well with you, and please show kindness to me.
Make mention of me to Pharaoh and get me out of this house.
I know this is where God get me, but Lord, get me out of here.
Verse 15, for indeed key, I was stolen away from the land of the Hebrews.
And also I've done nothing here that they should put me into the dungeon.
You know what's powerful about that?
What would you have said?
My rotten brothers sold me into this slavery.
All this began because of what they did to me.
Would we not have been justifying ourselves to go, I was innocent Potiphar's wife was the one who did it all.
Notice he excuses two things, leaves out two things, the brothers and potter's wife.
And Christian, when you're in your extreme test, in your extreme trial, leave your door open for reconciliation.
That person who maybe hurt you, harmed you, put you in this place, if you start going around and telling people so and so,
did this to me.
You won't believe what they did to me.
Again, there's a place of counseling, being encouraged.
I'm not talking about that.
I'm just talking about a general continual broadness where we sit and we say, so and so did this.
My parents did this, or my best friend, or my spouse, and these type of things, you know what you just removed?
Any possibility of the reconciliation.
Because once that person gets through the grapevine, oh, yeah, I was talking to Joseph in prison, whoo, man, he laid you out for selling him in the slavery.
Oh, man, did he tear up Potiphar's wife.
But we don't see that in Joseph.
We see him not casting that.
And he simply gives this, I was stolen away.
Here's why I'm here.
Vital.
when we're in our trowel to remember not to slam those who have hurt us.
Well verse 16 through 22, the extreme test, remember the butcher and I'll explain
What I mean by that, when the chief baker saw the interpretation was good, he said to Joseph, I also was in my dream.
And so he's like, oh man, good news for you.
Here comes good news for me, I hope.
And there were three white baskets on my head.
And the uppermost baskets were all kind of baked goods.
He's the baker for Pharaoh and the birds that ate them out of the basket on my head.
So Joseph answered and said, this is the interpretation of it.
The three baskets are three days.
Within three days Pharaoh will lift off your head from you and hang you on a tree and the birds will eat your flesh from among you.
Now it came to pass on the third day in which the Pharaoh's birthday that he made a feast for all of his servants and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.
Then he restored the chief butler to his butcher ship again.
butler ship again, and he placed the cup of the Pharaoh's hand.
Verse 22, but he hanged the chief baker as Joseph had interpreted to them.
So everything that Joseph said was going to happen happened.
You can imagine how this must have struggled in his heart or excited his heart.
Just as you gave me interpretation, it was exactly now it's time for my interpretation for what you have, the dream you gave me of the sun and the moon stars bowing down before me and these type of things.
But Christian, I don't think there's one of us in here who doesn't want to speak for God.
That's who we are.
We want to speak for Him.
We want to tell a lost and dying world.
We want to tell people who are hurting.
There's a way and there's a truth and there's a life.
Charlie Kirk.
A great example.
If we are going to speak for God.
In their trowel, in our trowel, in any
situation of life, we must speak both good and bad.
The greatest disservice we can do is only speak the good.
Joseph could have said to the butcher, you're going to get out of here in three days and convinced himself I was faithful.
It would have been true, but he knew in three days you will die.
And we must speak good.
I know the thoughts that I think towards you says, Lord, thoughts of peace, not of evil to give you a future in hope.
You have a hope butler cup bear.
But by his faithfulness, he warned the butcher, you will perish in three days.
You have three days to get your house in order with the God who created you.
Whatever your sin was, it has been found out.
Whatever this plot was, he was guilty.
And the Pharaoh's intelligence community went and figured out the facts and found out you were the one.
Was it a coup attempt?
Was an assassination attempt, but one of you two were trying to kill
One of you two poisoned the food, either the butler tried to poison the food in between the kitchen, or the food was poisoned in the kitchen, and the butler brought it.
One of the two were definitely, there was something who's right, and here his sin has been found out, and the butcher will die in three days, and that is the beauty and generosity of the Lord.
I warn you in advance, you're gonna come before me.
And that's what we need to do.
And I think there was a man who was martyred for speaking both and not ashamed.
How do you want to be remembered?
Charlie Kirk, I want to be remembered for my faith and my courage in the faith.
And one of the greatest, courageous things we do in our faith is to speak the truth, even when it hurts to be heard.
And we say, what you're doing is wrong.
And you will not find yourself in the means of what the Lord has until you repent.
Or it might even just come, you are perishing.
You will continue to perish.
For God still loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever should believe in Him shall not perish but have everlasting life.
You are perishing.
and you will continue to perish because your sin separates you from the holy God.
And unless you do something about your sin, you will die in your sin.
Therefore repent, be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, and times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord.
And the last one, remember God, and that's what you're holding in your hand.
Verse 23, the keeper of the prison did not look into anything
Sorry.
The chief butler did not remember Joseph, but for God, him.
Or diddy.
Here's the point I make about that.
If you were to get released, what would you do?
You'd head back to Canaan.
You'd be gone.
You surely wouldn't head back to Potiphar and go, can I get my job back?
You'd get far away from this prison.
I don't want anything to do.
I don't care if you offer me a thousand dollars a week.
I don't want this job.
I'm heading back to my dad.
I'm getting out of this place.
And that's where he would be.
But you know what we're going to read next week?
He's got two years.
There are still two more years to go before Pharaoh has his dream and that there is the need on this land.
And God needs to keep this man where he's at because he's got a man prepared for the moment.
And I believe that's what the Lord's doing.
in your life and in my life when we go through these hard times and through this trial and I believe without a doubt in my mind of what we witnessed this week with this assassination that is truly martyrdom is unless a grain of wheat falls to the ground it will not produce the harvest and that is the promise that I believe God has for us and as I said it and I bring it
together with God doesn't waste time.
I know we do.
I do.
Redeem the time for the days are evil.
I have wasted so much time just this week in whatever.
But I know when God puts me someplace and then as much as I want to get out of it, now would be the great time I can come to this place, God, you don't waste time.
And so God says through all this, Joseph, I gave you dreams because I want you to know
I know exactly where you're at.
I remember you.
I gave you the dreams to show that you would be stirred to go or not interpretations of the Lord.
And he gives us this.
And what a day for us to do this in remembrance.
Luke 22, get your communion cup.
Sometimes you got to wrestle through that thing.
And if you can't get your bread opened, I mentioned Richard Wormbrand.
He said him and the other believers, they would do communion on a regular basis through their cells, even though they didn't see each other.
In one case, he was in solitary confinement for three years.
And he said, we would
hold bread and wine in our hand, even though they were empty.
And one of us would say, the night in which he was betrayed, he took bread, broke it, gave thanks, said, take, eat, this is my body, given for you.
And we would take the bread that didn't exist, but in our heart and mind, God manifested it into bread.
He's a tremendous story, if you ever want to read that story.
If you can't get your bread out, Lord, this is my body, which is given for you.
Do this in remembrance of me.
Everything that we watched and saw, the horrific horror of it against our nation, against our Christian belief, against the brother in Christ, we remember nothing could happen.
unless it went through your vetting first.
And you're not done with Joseph.
You've got a plan for him.
He's got two more years of chiseling to go.
But you gave him a remembrance of who you are and that you still hold him in your hand and that you do have plans that you will fulfill.
In the midst of our country and the midst
Maybe my brothers and sisters' trowel that they're going through.
I know you see, and I know nothing has got past you.
Because if you gave your only begotten Son for us, would you withhold anything?
The answer is obviously no.
We don't understand all these things, but we do understand you.
We understand the price that has been paid.
that our God is on the throne, not pacing, ruling and reigning.
And we hold bread in our hand to prove, to remind us, you're on the throne, resurrected Christ.
So we take this bread and we do it in remembrance of you.
And likewise,
He took the cup after supper saying, this is the cup of the new covenant in my blood, which is shed for you, the new covenant.
The old covenant based on man's ability to perform God's holy law to perfection.
We've all failed.
There's none good.
No, not one.
The new covenant, the blood of Jesus Christ, one drop cleanses us from all unrighteousness.
He who knew no sin became sin for us that we may become right with God.
And Lord, I pray for anybody here and I close with who's in a trowel or just us with a numbness that this could happen in our nation.
That there is a cup that's told for us to remember that you see us.
You are working in us and you have us.
And we take this cup and we do it in remembrance of you.
And I bless you, Lord.
I thank you for the things that you put before us.
And I pray that blessing upon my brothers and sisters.
I pray for a great nation.
I pray for a shaking and awakening, Lord, that you would awaken the spirit that lives in us.
And like Joseph, we would speak regardless of what is put against us.
And Lord, as we watch the seat of a martyr, stunning.
But Lord, so profound that someone be willing to offer themselves
May we offer ourselves living sacrifice before you to do with us as you will, Lord, that you might be glorified.
In your name, amen.
Amen.
God bless you guys.
We'll pick up in Genesis 41 next week.